Unusual industries, which
are called B2B, or industrial marketing.
What many companies do is
that this business started business,
medium and small business in the
regions of Russia, when companies
began to sell raw materials,
components, machines, equipment,
tractors and much more.
B2B and marketing.
A few words about the specifics of
positioning, but from the beginning of the definition.
Industrial marketing is a concept
that describes the marketing of goods
and services for an organization for
B2B organizations.
Organization in this case
means the organization of all
types - commercial, non-profit,
private, public, government,
producers and sellers.
There are features of purchasing
behavior in industrial
marketing that define how
positioning should be built.
The first feature – potential
buyers can be individually
identified.
We know exactly who will buy from us, unlike
B2C marketing, where we don't know who
will come to the store and who will
take our goods off the shelf.
The second difference is that the decision-making
process is organized.
Every company has a certain
procedure according to which
the company makes a decision.
When we talk about marketing, for this
industry we need to understand that
it should help us make decisions
in our favor.
The third feature is that the purchases
are carried out professionally.
Of course, this cannot be said
of all the companies that buy
our products, but in general
we assume that when we sell
goods of industrial value,
we are faced with a certain
system involving people
who call themselves professionals.
So they use some criteria
that are important to them.
and end.
The fourth is the high
probability of re-buy.
Per this is the happiest time when
the company came to the fact
that its customers became
regular customers.
Then efforts to find new customers
are slowed down, the company gets
current revenue without increasing
its efforts and energy to
find new customers.
The next.
This slide shows the specifics
of industrial and consumer
marxing and shows the future
of Russian companies,
which work in both the one
and the other marxing.
From the point of view of the
product, the development of products,
for example, in the system of industrial
marxing, is linear.
Computers are improved,
their power is built,
the productivity of equipment is built.
In consumer Marxism, everything
is cyclical.
Men wear costumes on three
buttons, then on two, then on one,
then again on three.
This cyclicity is repeated with
small fluctuations.
Therefore, the second element of
the product that strikes us and
makes us restrain is the stimulus.
In industrial marxing, technology
is very important.
How everything is built, what we give,
how we change.
In consumer marxing, fashion is important,
and therefore the marketer
is required to shape
fashion.
The consumer in industrial
marxing chooses on the basis
of objective criteria.
Objective criteria are difficult
to break, and in consumer marxing
people choose on the basis of subjective
criteria.
When you sell clothes, you
understand that people have different
criteria.
One likes brown, the other likes
red, the third likes gray, the fourth
likes blue.
And it is difficult for us to pick up,
but that determines our Marxist activity.
Finally, see, consumers in
industrial marxing tend
to use the left hemisphere.
They are supposed to be very
rational, they compare the
selection criteria, and then say
that we will buy products from
that company.
Consumer Marxism has such
a property, we know that
in many cases the client
is irrational.
It is guided by the right hemisphere,
which is the hemisphere that
controls our emotions.
Finally, two other aspects
that always interest me.
The macro-cultural aspect
Two of cultures.
In industrial Marxism, science is very
important.
And your advancement,
your marxism, is artistic.
And finally, another cultural coverage.
If in industrial marxing the
scope is globalized, and this means
that everything that is
created in the West, in the field
of technology, in the field of
computerization, sooner or later
comes to us with small changes,
then the consumer sector shows
a huge specificity associated
with cultural boundaries.
And this means that a marketer should
understand the country in which
he lives more.
The conclusion I will make
now is very unusual.
I predict that in industrial marketing
in the context of globalization,
Russia's entry into the World
Trade Organization, many
marketers will have to
be hard, because they do
not define anything.
And that the marketer's
job in consumer marxing will
remain behind Russia, because
no one, like Russia, knows the
specifics of this culture.
And I don't think that neither
the French, nor the Americans, nor
the Germans will be able to interpret
consumer motives better than,
for example, Russian marketers.
And lastly, the analogy of the profession.
If industrial marxism is more with a lawyer
and a doctor, then consumer
marxism is more with a politician
and a showman.
I always look at this picture and
tell you where would you like
to be doing Marxism?
What would you like to do as a Marxist?
The consumer?
Or an industrial?
Of course, I often talk about consumers.
It is very uninteresting and unambiguous,
and we can say we predict
industrial marxism.
But that's why I define that there
are certain difficulties here
associated with segmentation
and positioning
of products.
For industrial marxing for the
B2B sector, what is called the contact
points is very important.
This is what every advancement is built on.
And I would like to say that if you
are working in this field, then the
most important thing you should
do is first identify market segments,
which we talked about at the beginning
of our class, and then say what
is the points of contact
with customers, with those
rational customers, which
take on the basis of some objective
criteria.
Look at my example, which shows
that when we sell equipment, metals,
raw materials, components,
we must understand that we must
have a good website, a good
office, good business cards
that we pass on to customers,
we must look decent at the
exhibitions we participate in,
we must fit the place of sale,
especially our negotiating
well, and finally we must
have relevant advertising
that is often very rational
and explains to the customer
why it comes.
I say this is why, because
it may be the basis of promotion,
do not build illusions, industrial
marketing will never be like
consumer, it is much duller, but
also more rational,
but this has its charm, here
even in this you must bring
elements of art, show
the beauty and value of
the brand that you offer
to the market.
This is the property in some
small operations, which are associated
with the fact that in the points of contact
with the customer the customer must see
the distinctive features
of your company, differentiate it by
the office, by the site, by the business
cards, by the exhibitions, by the
negotiation, that is, by the place
of sale and by your advertising.
And finally it may be the most interesting.
In 2000, two researchers, Rust
Lemman, first proposed an unusual
concept that would otherwise
be able to counter what
we call B2B marketing, namely the
concept of consumer capital.
What is it?
The authors view consumer
capital as a set of individual controlled
factors, and consumers themselves
as a financial asset of
a company.
This is such an unusual view,
because traditionally marketing
implies that we have a product and
service to sell to the customer.
They first saw a different value
when we work in industrial marketing,
the customer often buys.
What should be done to eliminate
the word product
and focus on the consumer?
The term they picked up is
very interesting, consumer capital.
And for me, the very important conclusion
is the danger of slave
following the product
orientation without consumer orientation.
So what should we do so that our
consumer becomes our capital,
so that he brings more and
more money?
There are three rules
that you must follow.
If I want to move back, then
we must differentiate our
positioning based on three
controlled factors of
consumer capital.
The first factor is called value capital,
the second factor is called
brand capital and the third factor is
called retention capital.
In all three factors there
is a differentiation of the firm
that we must carry through this
policy in relation to our customers.
The first factor is capital value.
What does this mean?
When a customer wants to
buy products from an
industrial enterprise, he always
compares, he weighs some offers,
whether it is our offer
with the offer of competitors,
or your offer with desired
factors, such as with his
budget.
This is the first.
Value capital is very important
when the monetary value of a loyalty
program is very high.
And two other factors are very important
when in their relationship
between the consumer the company
generates a strong connection.
So I wanted to show you
that there are some rules that
suggest that if you want to attract
first, then you should think
about what to do in order
to try to limit the balls they
are to our customer and
go to another provider.
Remember, it is very important to
make the first offer so that you
have a much more profitable offer
than the rivals.
Remember that if you don't
have a good loyalty program, then
value capital should be very significant.
Remember that if you create a learning
type of customer relationship as an
element of the primary
offer, it also generates a strong
connection.
And remember that you must create such
conditions that it is very difficult
for the customer to switch to your
competitor.
How can capital increase value?
There are a few ways, but this
is the easiest.
Offer higher value, quality of
convenience, or offer the same
value as competitors, but
at a lower price.
Whatever we do, we must proceed
from the following.
When we create a market
offer, we have to say that yes,
we can sell the same thing
at a higher price, but then
we underestimate capital of value
and remove one of the elements
of consumer capital that
is very important to our business.
The next slide.
The second element.
Whatever we offer in the market,
at whatever price, we will always
be present in the market of price
competition unless we recognize
that another factor
that affects our choice
is the brand.
This is especially important to understand for
those companies who have difficulty assessing
the quality of a product or service before buying.
For example, it is very difficult to assess
in service marketing.
Yes, services can also be B2B.
Services can also be for B2B industries,
for example.
We conduct seminars
and advise companies.
In fact, we work in the B2B industry,
and at the same time it is a service.
It is very difficult to assess
the quality of a product or service
initially, and so when we talk about
how much it can cost, we have
to say if we have brand capital,
if we don't, we will always
have to sell at a low price.
And we compete with the
same companies, which, again,
sell at a low price, and therefore
offer another dumping.
Compare the brands that are here.
I wanted to show.
What is better than this lunch?
Wisconsin, Omas, Waterman or Parker?
There is nothing in these pennies.
But people who buy them are
probably more likely to
refer to the brand and its fame.
The same for many companies.
Sometimes it is very important
to spend money on a brand.
Western companies allocate
huge budgets to shape
the brand image.
Russian companies selling
metal, why?
Better to pay and do nothing.
Remember, we are slowly pushing ourselves
into the price competition and eventually
the day will come when we will be
removed from the market.
Let us return to this slide.
Which of the meals are you most pleased with?
This means in part that this pen
has achieved that it has created
brand capital for itself.
The next slide.
Three roles of brand capital that are very
important.
Brand is important for the B2B
industry, not less for B2C,
because it acts as a magnet
to attract new consumers to
the company.
For example, in the market
of industrial commercial transport
in Russia became, for example,
Volvo and Scania.
People want to buy Volvo trucks.
People want to buy Volvo buses.
And it is difficult to explain because from
the point of view of rational choice.
They are very expensive buses and trucks.
People prefer something in Russia.
Volvo now has a very large
market share in this segment.
And of course, competitors who
want to overtake Volvo
are facing a problem.
How to do it?
They often dump, lower prices.
But Volvo does not lose its
market share because Volvo
has created what we call
brand capital.
The second.
Our brand acts as a visiting card
to remind you of goods and services.
This brand helps us marketers
promote this product.
But most importantly, for this
brand, the most grateful salespeople,
because they have to contact
with customers.
And they often have to explain
why the same product is more expensive.
And finally the last.
A brand generally provides an emotional
connection between the consumer
and the company.
It creates something invisible
that makes people turn to this
product.
Pay attention to how you are dressed.
It is a brand policy
tool, a marketing tool.
Someone binds us to a brand,
to the ones we wear, to what
we wear, to what we wear.
In the same way, we also face
a problem in industrial marketing.
The consumer often says no,
we should use these trucks.
It is difficult to convince Coca-Cola in
Russia that it should not use Volvo
trucks, because there is some emotional
connection between these, between
the consumer and the company,
which were created by Volvo then still
in the Western market and today the
company does not even want to consider
the issue of an alternative.
There are certain rules that
say that when we think about
how to get away from a competitor,
we must measure the brand
that generally repaired,
repaired, differentiated us.
I liked the authors of this model saying
that if you want to understand whether
a brand is differentiating you or not,
measure the first brand awareness,
the second the emotions that a
brand is causing, the attitude
toward a brand.
People are happy, happy,
proud, or just laughing and finally
brand ethics.
The most painful thing about Russia
is that we have to face such
a situation.
We are good at awareness, even better
in emotions, and are ready
to generate absolutely creative, completely
new creative ideas related to advertising,
but we don't want to notice
the ethics of the brand.
I think that sooner or later
companies that use so-called scandalous
marketing, provocative marketing,
will face the problem
that Russians, consumers, will
begin to evaluate the
ethics of their brand.
And the most important may be
the last element of differentiation.
The differentiation of industrial marketing
includes another very important
element.
It is necessary in the third component
of the company, which operates
in the bitume industries, little
to offer a good product at a similar
price, little to create a brand
that is valuable to the customer.
It is important to create a loyalty
program, which is called Rust by the
company "Capital retention".
What is retention capital?
This is a trend manifested by
the consumer in the form of a brand preference,
not explained by objective
and subjective assessments
of the brand.
It's just amazing how you can
explain why a customer wants to
buy from that company, why he doesn't
want to switch to another
company.
Indeed, it is difficult to even
ask why here, because people
don't think about it.
It is Rust who for the first time
expresses this point of view, if you
want to be a successful
company, think about how
to keep your customers.
Of course, there is a Russian company
tending to measure customer
loyalty with various types of offers
and discounts, believing that this
is why people come to them over
and over again, but
in reality we are facing an
unusual situation.
Loyalty programs are generally
profitable for many Russian
companies.
We want to accept that there are
preferences that are not explained
by objective estimates, but by something
else.
What is it?
The company is building up capital
retention, offering consumers benefits,
thanks to which it becomes more
expensive for them to switch to competitor
products.
What does this mean in reality?
We create such conditions of work
with the customer that assumes
that if our customer moves to our
competitor and starts buying
his products, he faces
inexplicable difficulties from
the point of view of consumers.
For example, discomfort of communication,
discomfort of filling out forms,
discomfort of explaining a situation
and much more.
I have encountered an unusual case in
Russia when one of the companies
is ready to go on to make their
customers even develop a plan of
supply that they need for the entire program.
Imagine how a company profoundly serves
the customer, how deeply concerns
his needs, that, for example, employees
who work at the enterprise-buyer
are willing
to give their own function,
for example, calculating the
needs in metal and components
of another organization, understanding
that it will do it
better.
In general, such parasitization on
the competences of the supplier leads to
the fact that the customer is very connected,
connected, because if this supplier
leaves, he will have to
develop the program himself.
I am not used to doing this anymore,
I am used to showing it in the best
way, for example, in a power
point before the customer's advice
in order to prevent him
from moving to our competitors.
There are several ways according
to the consumer
capital model.
The first is the various options
for rewarding repeated purchases.
Yes, the customer understands that
if I buy the next purchase, I have some
benefits, and therefore it is not
profitable to start a new purchase
from a new competitor.
The second is sponsorship programs.
It is the provider of the sponsorship
program that assumes that we are
involved, for example, in some sponsorship
activities to help children, for
example, pensioners of this enterprise.
We do various kinds of holidays,
sponsor, we help those who have
left the factory and much more.
Second, it is a stimulation
program that allows to strengthen
the emotional attachment
of the company's consumer.
I think that this emotional
attachment is often clarified
when a company begins to create
a variety of training
programs, staff development
programs.
And so, for example, it is very important
in B2B is such a segment, such an
activity, such as, for example,
free service workshops, invitation
to a conference, show that
we are not just selling a product,
we are developing a business,
expanding the idea, for example,
the buyer about where to go and
how to go.
I have often had to speak at such
workshops, where, as a rule,
suppliers are ready for their
consumers to hold business seminars
in order to make them aware
of how to work better in the market
and how to earn more money.
The supplier then is confident that
the sales will increase, and the
consumer will increase, and
accordingly the supplier.
The last slide.
And finally, as differentiation,
what differentiation should be.
Differentiation in B2B is manifested
in the most unqualified, in the
most unqualified promotional activities,
in PR, in newspaper advertisements,
in professional press, in direct
marketing, in references, in exhibitions,
in brochures, audio-video
materials, in various materials
of computer order, commercial
promotion and gifts.
Everywhere, from PR, we must feel
that the company is differentiated
and always reflects in these
advertising materials or in
promoting its specifics, in what
it differs from the competitor.
Only then can we say that differentiation
in B2B has achieved
its result.
It's difficult, but each of these
elements should bear an idea, including
a slogan that is developed based
on differentiation.
I have a crown phrase
that says that all good
things end.
I finished marketing, namely segmentation.
The choice of target segments
and positioning is a very important
tool for creating confidence
that the company will continue
to exist in the market that
will not disrupt the waves of
competitive struggle.
Remember my course when you have
to think about what to do with
customers, how to compete with
new players that are
coming to your market.
But most importantly, this way you
get a non-standard solution
that is difficult to repeat,
because the most difficult to
repeat is the intellectual
activity of people.
It is easier to repeat the products of technology.
Thank you very much.
Success in your business.